docs(core): gradle tutorial (#22942)
nrwl/nx: docs/shared/tutorials/gradle.md

BUILD SUCCESSFUL in 23s
1 actionable task: 1 executed
```

Finally, set up git and create your first commit:

```shell
git init
git commit -am "initial commit"
```

You can run the `gradle projects` command to get a list of projects in the repo.

```text {% command="gradle projects" %}
> Task :projects

------------------------------------------------------------
Root project 'gradle-tutorial'
------------------------------------------------------------

Root project 'gradle-tutorial'
+--- Project ':app'
+--- Project ':list'
\--- Project ':utilities'

To see a list of the tasks of a project, run gradle <project-path>:tasks
For example, try running gradle :app:tasks

BUILD SUCCESSFUL in 15s
11 actionable tasks: 11 executed
```

The repository has two Java libraries (under `list` and `utilities`) that are used in an application located in the `app` folder.

You can build the `app` project by running `gradle app:build`:

```text {% command="gradle app:build" %}
BUILD SUCCESSFUL in 3s
21 actionable tasks: 12 executed, 9 up-to-date
```

## Add Nx

> With the `@nx/gradle` plugin, Nx can be easily added to a Gradle repository and Nx will work seamlessly along side Gradle.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With the `@nx/gradle` plugin, Nx can be easily added to a Gradle repository and Nx will work seamlessly alongside Gradle.
```

> Nx offers many features, but at its core, it is a task runner. Out of the box, it can cache your tasks and ensure those tasks are run in the correct order. After the initial set up, you can incrementally add on other features that would be helpful in your organization.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Nx offers many features, but at its core, it is a task runner. Out of the box, it can cache your tasks and ensure those tasks are run in the correct order. After the initial setup, you can incrementally add other features that would be helpful in your organization.
```

To enable Nx in your repository, run a single command:

```shell {% path="~/gradle-tutorial" %}
npx nx@latest init
```

This command will download the latest version of Nx and help set up your repository to take advantage of it.

The script will propose installing the `@nx/gradle` plugin to allow Nx to understand Gradle configuration files. Make sure to select the plugin to install it.

After Nx has been installed, there will be a few new files in your repository:

```treeview
gradle-tutorial/
├── .nx/
├── app/
├── list/
├── utilities/
├── gradlew
├── gradlew.bat
├── nx
├── nx.bat
├── nx.json
└── settings.gradle.kts
```

> Because this is not a javascript repository, there is no `package.json` file or `node_modules` folder. Instead, Nx has provided executables at the root of the repository: `nx` for Unix operating systems and `nx.bat` for Windows. These executables can be used in the same way that `gradlew` and `gradlew.bat` are used.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Because this is not a JavaScript repository, there is no `package.json` file or `node_modules` folder. Instead, Nx has provided executables at the root of the repository: `nx` for Unix operating systems and `nx.bat` for Windows. These executables can be used in the same way that `gradlew` and `gradlew.bat` are used.
```

First, commit any outstanding changes in your repository:

```shell
git commit -am "changes"
```

Next make a small change to the `app` code:

```java {% fileName="app/src/main/java/org/example/app/App.java" %}
/*
 * This source file was generated by the Gradle 'init' task
 */
package org.example.app;

import org.example.list.LinkedList;

import static org.example.utilities.StringUtils.join;
import static org.example.utilities.StringUtils.split;
import static org.example.app.MessageUtils.getMessage;

import org.apache.commons.text.WordUtils;

public class App {
    public static void main(String[] args) {
        LinkedList tokens;
        tokens = split(getMessage());
        String result = join(tokens) + " something";
        System.out.println(WordUtils.capitalize(result));
    }
}
```

Then you can use the `nx affected` command to run the `assemble` task only for projects that were affected by that change.

```shell
./nx affected -t assemble
```

> The assemble task was run for the `app` project, but not for `list` or `utilities` because a change to the `app` project could not have changed the behavior of those projects. This feature is most useful in CI where you want to make sure to fully check every project that may have been affected by a change, but you want to avoid wasting time on tasks that do not need to be run. As more projects are added to the repository, this functionality becomes essential to maintain a fast CI pipeline.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `assemble` task was run for the `app` project, but not for `list` or `utilities` because a change to the `app` project could not have changed the behavior of those projects. This feature is most useful in CI where you want to make sure to fully check every project that may have been affected by a change, but you want to avoid wasting time on tasks that do not need to be run. As more projects are added to the repository, this functionality becomes essential to maintain a fast CI pipeline.
```

## Summary

> Now that you have added Nx to your Gradle repository, you can take advantage of Nx's dependency graph visualisation and leverage the `affected` command to speed up your CI pipeline. You can also more easily add javascript projects along side your Gradle projects and use Nx to manage them all.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now that you have added Nx to your Gradle repository, you can take advantage of Nx's dependency graph visualisation and leverage the `affected` command to speed up your CI pipeline. You can also more easily add JavaScript projects alongside your Gradle projects and use Nx to manage them all.
```

computation caching to reuse the results of tasks. We will explore how Nx adds to the task running Gradle provides.

Before we start running tasks, let's explore the tasks available for the `application` project. The `@nx/gradle` plugin

> that we've installed allows Nx to run any of the Gradle tasks defined for that project. You can do this either through [Nx Console](/getting-started/editor-setup) or from the terminal:

Reviewer 2: Can you please bring back the word "reflects"?

1. It provides more detail about how exactly Nx is able to run the Gradle tasks.
2. It describes exactly what we're doing
3. It's a concept that Java developers will be familiar with https://www.oracle.com/technical-resources/articles/java/javareflection.html

Author: I added it back, but I still think it is weird to call Nx reading Gradle's tasks the same thing as code reflection.  I think it creates more confusion than it clarifies.
